[New entry] PostgreSQL Identifiers (#5338)
Codecademy/docs: content/postgresql/concepts/identifers/identifers.md

    position VARCHAR(100),
    last_updated TIMESTAMP
);

CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION update_last_updated()
RETURNS TRIGGER AS $$
BEGIN
    -- Set the last_updated column to the current time
    NEW.last_updated = NOW();
    RETURN NEW;
END;
$$ LANGUAGE plpgsql;

CREATE TRIGGER update_timestamp
BEFORE UPDATE ON employees
FOR EACH ROW
EXECUTE FUNCTION update_last_updated();
```

### Role Identifiers

Role Identifiers refer to names given to roles that are used to manage roles within the database. They are fundamental parts of security and permission systems They can be used to give certain access to a user like reading all the tables, writing to all tables, etc.

#### Example

In the below example how to create roles and assign them to a user is shown:

```sql
CREATE ROLE admin;

GRANT admin TO alice;
```

### Foreign Key Identifiers

Foreign Key Identifiers are used to give names to foreign key constraints that help in establishing a relationship between two tables, it helps in building relations between columns in different tables. It ensures that values in one column (or a set of columns) match values in another column, typically the primary key of another table.

> ### Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example
```

```sql
CREATE INDEX employee_name_idx ON employees (name);
```

### View Identifiers

View Identifier refers to the name given to views which are virtual tables defined by a query it allows the user to encapsulate complex queries under a single name and interact with the query results as if they were actual tables.

#### Example

In the below example, the `employee_summary` view is created which works as a shortcut to select from the `employees` table.

```sql
CREATE VIEW employee_summary AS
SELECT name, department, salary
FROM employees;

SELECT * FROM employee_summary;
```

### Constraint Identifiers

Constraint Identifiers are names assigned to constraints that enforce rules on the data in the table. They ensure data integrity and include types such as primary keys, foreign keys, unique constraints, check constraints, and not-null constraints.

#### Example

In the below example, how to use different kinds of constraints is shown:

```sql
CREATE TABLE employees (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    department_id INT,
    FOREIGN KEY (department_id) REFERENCES departments(id),
    email VARCHAR(255) UNIQUE,
    price NUMERIC CHECK (price > 0)
);
```

### Schema Identifiers

> Schema Identifiers refers to name given to schemas, which are logical container for building relation between tables, views, indexes and other database objects. It helps in organizing database object and avoid conflicts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Schema Identifiers refer to names given to schemas, which are a logical container for building relations between tables, views, indexes, and other database objects. It helps organize database objects and avoid conflicts.
```
I rephrased the sentence for more clarity.

#### Example

In the below example we use different kinds of constraint

```sql
CREATE TABLE employees (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    department_id INT,
    FOREIGN KEY (department_id) REFERENCES departments(id),
    email VARCHAR(255) UNIQUE,
    price NUMERIC CHECK (price > 0)
);
```

### Sequence Identifiers

> Sequence Identifiers refer to names assigned to sequences which are used to generate unique integer values and can be used in scenarios when the purpose is to make sure each row has a distinct value, typically used for auto-incrementing primary key columns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sequence Identifiers refer to names assigned to sequences that are used to generate unique integer values and can be used in scenarios when the purpose is to make sure each row has a distinct value, typically used for auto-incrementing primary key columns.
```

#### Example

In the below example, a sequence is created and its current value is returned:

```sql
-- Naming sequence using 
CREATE SEQUENCE employee_id_seq;

SELECT currval('employee_id_seq');
```

### Function Identifiers

Function Identifiers are names assigned to custom functions, these functions are made for certain purposes and they return a result based on the logic inside them.

#### Example

> In the below example a custom function `add_numbers` used to add numbers passed to it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the below example a custom function `add_numbers` is used to add numbers passed to it:
```

```sql
CREATE FUNCTION add_numbers (a INT, b INT) RETURNS INT AS $$
BEGIN
    RETURN a + b;
END;
$$ LANGUAGE plpgsql;

SELECT add_numbers(5, 10);
```

### Trigger Identifiers

Trigger Identifiers are names assigned to triggers, which automatically execute a specific procedure in response to certain events on the table. First, a trigger is created by specifying when to execute and the action to be performed.

#### Example

In the below example, we have a trigger `update_timestamp` that will be triggered when user information is updated and create a timestamp for when the update happened.

```sql
CREATE TABLE employees (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    name VARCHAR(100),
    position VARCHAR(100),
    last_updated TIMESTAMP
);

CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION update_last_updated()
RETURNS TRIGGER AS $$
BEGIN
    -- Set the last_updated column to the current time
    NEW.last_updated = NOW();
    RETURN NEW;
END;
$$ LANGUAGE plpgsql;

CREATE TRIGGER update_timestamp
BEFORE UPDATE ON employees
FOR EACH ROW
EXECUTE FUNCTION update_last_updated();
```

### Role Identifiers

> Role Identifiers refer to names given to roles which are used to manage roles within the database. They are fundamental parts of security and permission systems They can be used to give certain access to a user like reading all the tables, writing to all tables, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Role Identifiers refer to names given to roles that are used to manage roles within the database. They are fundamental parts of security and permission systems They can be used to give certain access to a user like reading all the tables, writing to all tables, etc.
```

#### Example

In the below example how to create roles and assign them to a user is shown:

```sql
CREATE ROLE admin;

GRANT admin TO alice;
```

### Foreign Key Identifiers

Foreign Key Identifiers are used to give names to foreign key constraints that help in establishing a relationship between two tables, it helps in building relations between columns in different tables. It ensures that values in one column (or a set of columns) match values in another column, typically the primary key of another table.

### Example

In the below example, two tables are created `departments` and `employees` and a foreign key relationship between them is established.

```sql

> CREATE TABLE departments (
>     id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
>     name VARCHAR(100)
> );
> 
> CREATE TABLE employees (
>     id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
>     name VARCHAR(100),
>     department_id INT,
>     CONSTRAINT fk_department FOREIGN KEY (department_id)
>     REFERENCES departments(id)
>     ON DELETE CASCADE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CREATE TABLE departments (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    name VARCHAR(100)
);

CREATE TABLE employees (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    name VARCHAR(100),
    department_id INT,
    CONSTRAINT fk_department FOREIGN KEY (department_id)
    REFERENCES departments(id)
    ON DELETE CASCADE
    );
```
Added closing parenthesis for employees table SQL statement.

);
```

### Aggregate Type Identifiers

Aggregate Type Identifiers refer to names given to aggregate functions, these functions operate on the set of values and return a single value. There are can build-in aggregate functions like `COUNT`, `SUM` etc and they can also be custom aggregate functions.

#### Example

> In the below example, a build-in `SUM` aggregate function is used and a custom aggregate function `my_sum` is created and used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the below example, a built-in `SUM` aggregate function is used and a custom aggregate function `my_sum` is created and used.
```
